	AWS
	---
Amazon CloudFront---It is a fast content delivery network (CDN) service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally with low latency, high transfer speeds.

DATABASE---Sql  : aurora, mysql, oracle,Microsoft SQL server etc --relational data
	   Nosql: dynamodb, documentdb  --Non relational data

LOAD BALANCERS---1.Clasic load balancers -> makes routing decisions at the application layer(HTTP/HTTPS)
		 2.Network load balancers -> makes routing decisions at the transport layer (TCP/SSL)
		 3.Application load balancers -> makes routing decisions at either the transport layer(TCP/SSL) or the application layer (HTTP/HTTPS)

CONTAINERS vs INSTANCES(vm)
	Containers--multiple workloads can run on a single OS
	VM-- multiple instances runs on multiple OS(each VM runs on a unique guest operating system)

SNOWBALL EDGE---To migate large amounts of data
	TYPES -> 1.Stoage Optimized
	 	 2.Compute optimized

REDSHIFT---Large data warehouse




AZURE SERVICES
--------------

Let's take a closer look at the most commonly used categories:

Compute
Networking
Storage
Databases
Web
Mobile
Internet of Things (IoT)
Big data
AI
DevOps



	Compute
	--------
Compute services are often one of the primary reasons why companies move to the Azure platform. Azure provides a range of options for hosting applications and services. Here are some examples of compute services in Azure.

	TABLE 1
	Service name					Service function
Azure Virtual Machines			Windows or Linux virtual machines (VMs) hosted in Azure.
Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets	Scaling for Windows or Linux VMs hosted in Azure.
Azure Kubernetes Service		Cluster management for VMs that run containerized services.
Azure Service Fabric			Distributed systems platform that runs in Azure or on-premises.
Azure Batch				Managed service for parallel and high-performance computing applications.
Azure Container Instances		Containerized apps run on Azure without provisioning servers or VMs.
Azure Functions				An event-driven, serverless compute service.



	Networking
	----------
Linking compute resources and providing access to applications is the key function of Azure networking. Networking functionality in Azure includes a range of options to connect the outside world to services and features in the global Azure datacenters.
Here are some examples of networking services in Azure.

	TABLE 2
	Service name				Service function
Azure Virtual Network		Connects VMs to incoming virtual private network (VPN) connections.
Azure Load Balancer		Balances inbound and outbound connections to applications or service endpoints.
Azure Application Gateway	Optimizes app server farm delivery while increasing application security.
Azure VPN Gateway		Accesses Azure Virtual Networks through high-performance VPN gateways.
Azure DNS			Provides ultra-fast DNS responses and ultra-high domain availability.
Azure Content Delivery Network	Delivers high-bandwidth content to customers globally.
Azure DDoS Protection		Protects Azure-hosted applications from distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks.
Azure Traffic Manager		Distributes network traffic across Azure regions worldwide.
Azure ExpressRoute		Connects to Azure over high-bandwidth dedicated secure connections.
Azure Network Watcher		Monitors and diagnoses network issues by using scenario-based analysis.
Azure Firewall			Implements high-security, high-availability firewall with unlimited scalability.
Azure Virtual WAN		Creates a unified wide area network (WAN) that connects local and remote sites.


	Storage
	--------
Azure provides four main types of storage services.

	TABLE 3
	Service name		Service function
Azure Blob storage	Storage service for very large objects, such as video files or bitmaps.
Azure File storage	File shares that can be accessed and managed like a file server.
Azure Queue storage	A data store for queuing and reliably delivering messages between applications.
Azure Table storage	Table storage is a service that stores non-relational structured data (also known as structured NoSQL data) in the cloud, providing a key/attribute store with a schemaless design..



	Databases
	----------
Azure provides multiple database services to store a wide variety of data types and volumes. And with global connectivity, this data is available to users instantly.

	TABLE 4
	Service name					Service function
Azure Cosmos DB				Globally distributed database that supports NoSQL options.
Azure SQL Database			Fully managed relational database with auto-scale, integral intelligence, and robust security.
Azure Database for MySQL		Fully managed and scalable MySQL relational database with high availability and security.
Azure Database for PostgreSQL		Fully managed and scalable PostgreSQL relational database with high availability and security.
SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines	Service that hosts enterprise SQL Server apps in the cloud.
Azure Synapse Analytics			Fully managed data warehouse with integral security at every level of scale at no extra cost.
Azure Database Migration Service	Service that migrates databases to the cloud with no application code changes.
Azure Cache for Redis			Fully managed service caches frequently used and static data to reduce data and application latency.
Azure Database for MariaDB		Fully managed and scalable MariaDB relational database with high availability and security.



	Web
	---
Having a great web experience is critical in today's business world. Azure includes first-class support to build and host web apps and HTTP-based web services. The following Azure services are focused on web hosting.

	TABLE 5
	Service name					Description
Azure App Service			Quickly create powerful cloud web-based apps.
Azure Notification Hubs			Send push notifications to any platform from any back end.
Azure API Management			Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale.
Azure Cognitive Search			Deploy this fully managed search as a service.
Web Apps feature of Azure App Service	Create and deploy mission-critical web apps at scale.
Azure SignalR Service			Add real-time web functionalities easily.
	


	IoT
	----
People are able to access more information than ever before. Personal digital assistants led to smartphones, and now there are smart watches, smart thermostats, and even smart refrigerators. Personal computers used to be the norm. Now the internet allows any item that's online-capable to access valuable information. This ability for devices to garner and then relay information for data analysis is referred to as IoT.
Many services can assist and drive end-to-end solutions for IoT on Azure.

	TABLE 6
	Service name		Description
IoT Central		Fully managed global IoT software as a service (SaaS) solution that makes it easy to connect, monitor, and manage IoT assets at scale.
Azure IoT Hub		Messaging hub that provides secure communications between and monitoring of millions of IoT devices.
IoT Edge		Fully managed service that allows data analysis models to be pushed directly onto IoT devices, which allows them to react quickly to state changes without needing to consult cloud-based AI models.



	Big data
	---------
Data comes in all formats and sizes. When we talk about big data, we're referring to large volumes of data. Data from weather systems, communications systems, genomic research, imaging platforms, and many other scenarios generate hundreds of gigabytes of data. This amount of data makes it hard to analyze and make decisions. It's often so large that traditional forms of processing and analysis are no longer appropriate.
Open-source cluster technologies have been developed to deal with these large data sets. Azure supports a broad range of technologies and services to provide big data and analytic solutions.

	TABLE 7
	Service name			Description
Azure Synapse Analytics		Run analytics at a massive scale by using a cloud-based enterprise data warehouse that takes advantage of massively parallel processing to run complex queries quickly across petabytes of data.
Azure HDInsight			Process massive amounts of data with managed clusters of Hadoop clusters in the cloud.
Azure Databricks		Integrate this collaborative Apache Spark-based analytics service with other big data services in Azure.




	AI
	---
AI, in the context of cloud computing, is based around a broad range of services, the core of which is machine learning. Machine learning is a data science technique that allows computers to use existing data to forecast future behaviors, outcomes, and trends. Using machine learning, computers learn without being explicitly programmed.
Forecasts or predictions from machine learning can make apps and devices smarter. For example, when you shop online, machine learning helps recommend other products you might like based on what you've purchased. Or when your credit card is swiped, machine learning compares the transaction to a database of transactions and helps detect fraud. And when your robot vacuum cleaner vacuums a room, machine learning helps it decide whether the job is done.
Here are some of the most common AI and machine learning service types in Azure.

	TABLE 8
	Service name				Description
Azure Machine Learning Service		Cloud-based environment you can use to develop, train, test, deploy, manage, and track machine learning models. It can auto-generate a model and auto-tune it for you. It will let you start training on your local machine, and then scale out to the cloud.
Azure ML Studio				Collaborative visual workspace where you can build, test, and deploy machine learning solutions by using prebuilt machine learning algorithms and data-handling modules.




	DevOps
	-------
DevOps brings together people, processes, and technology by automating software delivery to provide continuous value to your users. With Azure DevOps, you can create build and release pipelines that provide continuous integration, delivery, and deployment for your applications. You can integrate repositories and application tests, perform application monitoring, and work with build artifacts. You can also work with and backlog items for tracking, automate infrastructure deployment, and integrate a range of third-party tools and services such as Jenkins and Chef. All of these functions and many more are closely integrated with Azure to allow for consistent, repeatable deployments for your applications to provide streamlined build and release processes.

	TABLE 10
	Service name		Description
Azure DevOps		Use development collaboration tools such as high-performance pipelines, free private Git repositories, configurable Kanban boards, and extensive automated and cloud-based load testing. Formerly known as Visual Studio Team Services.
Azure DevTest Labs	Quickly create on-demand Windows and Linux environments to test or demo applications directly from deployment pipelines.








Azure BLOB(Binary Large Objects)--->to store large amounts of unstructured data i.e, text or binary data

Azure Table-- structured data

CosmosDB--Globally distributed and tansparent multi master replication i.e, less latency


Azure Active directory---AWS IAM


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--- AWS ---

Ports:
SSH - 22, RDP - 3389, DNS - 53, HTTP - 80, HTTPS - 443
	
Amazon CloudFront:
It is a fast content delivery network (CDN) service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally with low latency, high transfer speeds.
Database(Origin)-->Nearest Edge Locatoin(content is cached here)-->User

DATABASE
Sql: aurora, mysql, oracle,Microsoft SQL server ,Postgre sql etc --relational data
Nosql: dynamodb, documentdb  --Non relational data

Elastic Block Store(EBS)
EC2 is a virtual server in a cloud, while EBS is a virtual disk in a cloud.
Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes & attach them to the EC2 instances

LOAD BALANCERS
1.Clasic load balancers -> makes routing decisions at the application layer (HTTP/HTTPS)
2.Network load balancers -> makes routing decisions at the transport layer (TCP/SSL)
3.Applicatoin load balancers -> makes routing decisions at either the transport layer (TCP/SSL) or the application layer (HTTP/HTTPS)

CONTAINERS vs INSTANCES (VM)
Containers--multiple workloads can run on a single OS
VM-- multiple instances runs on multiple OS (each VM runs on a unique guest operating system)

SNOWBALL EDGE---To migrate large amounts of data
	TYPES  -> 1. Storage Optimized
	 	       2. Compute optimized

REDSHIFT---Large data warehouse


Vertical Scaling (up & down)--> adding & removing more CPU, memory, or I/O resources to an existing server, or replacing one server with a more powerful server.
Horizontal Scaling (in & out)--> adding & removing additional instances(servers) instead of moving to a larger instance size.

6R's Migration strategy:	
1. Rehosting ("lift and shift")
As the name implies, this involves lifting your stack and shifting it from on-premises hosting to the cloud. You transport an exact copy of your current environment without making extensive changes for the quickest ROI. Companies with a conservative culture or no long-term strategy for harnessing advanced cloud capabilities are well suited for rehosting.

2. Replatforming ("lift & Reshape - optimize")
	Same as lift & shift but It involves making a few further adjustments to optimize your landscape for the cloud. Again, the core architecture of applications stays the same. This, too, is a good strategy for conservative organizations that want to build trust in the cloud while achieving benefits like increased system performance.

3. Repurchasing ("drop and shop")
This means moving your applications to a new, cloud-native product, most commonly a SaaS platform (for example, moving a CRM to Salesforce). The challenge is losing the familiarity of existing code and training your team on the new platform. Even so, repurchasing might be your most cost-effective option if moving from a highly customized legacy landscape.

4. Refactoring ("Rebuilding or Rearchitecting")
 It means rebuilding your applications from scratch. This is usually driven by a business need to leverage cloud capabilities that are not available in your existing environment, such as cloud auto-scaling or serverless computing. Refactoring is generally the most expensive option, but also the most compatible with future versions.

5. Retiring
Once you have assessed your application portfolio for cloud readiness, you might find some applications are no longer useful. In this case, simply turn them off. The resulting savings (reduce the complexity of your computing, architecture, storage, licensing, and backup, making your infrastructure leaner) might even boost your business case for applications that are ready for migration.

6. Retaining ("Hybrid model")
For some organizations, cloud adoption does not yet make sense. Are you unable to take data off premises for compliance reasons? Perhaps you are not ready to prioritize an app that was recently upgraded?  You should only migrate what makes sense for your business i.e; When categorizing the workload for this type of migration, you create a hybrid infrastructure whereby some workloads are hosted in the cloud and some workloads are retained on-premise.




				--- AZURE ---


Azure BLOB(Binary Large Objects)--->to store large amounts of unstructured data i.e, text or binary data

Azure Table---> structured data

CosmosDB --->Globally distributed and tansparent multi master replication i.e, less latency

Azure Active directory <---> AWS IAM

